I am Kimi Iwasaki, born in “1902”, in
a village called Fuji mimura in the foothills
of old Shizu oka prefecture.
At the age of three, I was adopted by an American
missionary couple, The Hewett family.
My mother, Kayo, being poor, had surrendered
me in the belief that she was doing the best
thing for her daughter.
I am linked to a song that almost every Japanese
person knows, that is The Little Girl with
Red Shoes On, or as it’s called locally
,Akai Kutsu.
In the song, a young girl accompanies a foreigner
by ship from Yokohama, presumably headed for
the United States.
In the song, the mother wonders if her daughter
is happy and if her eyes have turned blue
like a foreigner’s.
The lyrics reflect my mother’s belief that
the Hewetts had taken me home with them.
In fact, contrary to the words of the song,
I had never left Japan at all.
When it was time for the Hewetts to leave,
it was discovered that I had tuberculosis,
which was incurable at that time.
It seemed doubtful that I would survive the
long ocean voyage, so I was left in a Methodist
church orphanage in the AzabuJuban area of
Tokyo.
There, I died on “1911”, at the age of
nine.
Meanwhile, My mother had married Shiro Suzuki
and migrated with him to, sapporo where he
found a job in a small newspaper publishing
company.
One of Shiro coworkers – Named Ujo Noguchi
- heard my story from my mother and wrote
the lyrics to “Akai Kutsu” . My mother
always sang the song with her voice full of
sadness and regret.
The song is very popular without being linked
to the original story until a newspaper chanced
to publish a story on the girl’s tragic
life in “1973”, and my life became widely
known around the country.
In “1989”, a statue of me was erected
in Tokyo.
On the day it was first unveiled, someone
left “40” yen at its feet.
A charity was born, and today millions of
yen have been collected and donated to UNESCO
and other childcare charities.
I may not have lived long to see the beauty
of this world, but I pray other kids can live
to fill it with joy and hope.